# What did we do well?

Okay, so we sent you out to lunch and gave you some homework with little cards. We'll go through these in orders.

What were some of the things that we did well? You liked github. 4 days is more justifiable in terms of flights and costs. The balance of travel because there's no more percentage in days than just flights. And more events around this. I hate github. Speaking of github, I was going to propose we should either offer a brief tutorial on github at the start of each event or designate a github helper so that at any point during the event you have one or more questions then a github helper would help. Thank you. I would like people to withhold suggestions until we get to the suggestion part. Hopefully we'll get commitments with suggestions.

I thought demo night was really successful. I think there was a good mix of demos and diversity and we stayed well-engaged given the time constraints.

I support the safety I felt as a non-technical person trying to be heard and be part of this community. It worked pretty well. I support demo night as well. Alright, thank you.

I really liked in particular the things that were off the main part, in particular the "choose your own adventure". It gave me an opportunity to share in something I wouldn't have been able to do otherwise. The soft skills session helped me to learn something that I wouldn't have been able to learn otherwise.

I really appreciated the focus on productive outcomes. Even if they don't get fully completed and polished, there's a perpetual yield of outcomes. We can still have the other conversations you want to have, but it's in service of producing something to share not just your personal benefit. I also appreciated the conversation about cultural biases even if we're still embodying a bunch of the problems at least the willingness to bring the discourse forward feels like a good start.

I thought the pacing felt really nice. There's a timeline and we're going to call you on it but we're not super strict about it and we do keep the time pretty well, it's alright. I felt really comfortable with the pacing. It just felt right. Cool, I'm really proud of that. The first one I ran, I was like the time nazi. I realized that at the next one it was unnecessary. It felt more or less on time. We're running late, now, but let's continue. Anyone else on what we do well? Then we're going to move on to what we can improve.

I sat down with a couple of people during lunch and this is just-- not my opinion-- just echoing again, pacing felt right, there felt like there was enough freedom in the schedule to take some breaks and skip out on some things you didn't necessarily want to go to, so that was well balanced. The apologies soft-skill thing everyone seemed to like. Many folks said it made them feel uncomfortable but it was a good outcome and we didn't end up wallowing in pity for an hour. 15-30 minutes felt right for that. So that's it.

I've heard from a number of introverts that one of our goals which was to allow for more space, worked for them. We also have to find ways to allow them to have feedback without having to sit and stand in front of everyone to speak. I don't want to do suggestions yet, but we're about to. I would love to help solve that problem. It just makes my brain hurt. But we have this microphone in front of the room thing, it alienates people because that's not their preferred mode of engagement. If you have ideas, send some email or suggest to a staffer. We'd like to support that if we can figure out how. Ian?

Is everyone familiar with the acronym WEIRD? It came up this morning. It's western educated rich democratic. It's basically on a psychology paper that said most of the psychology papers are flawed and valueless because all of the test subjects came from rich western university students. They came up with the notion that WEIRD was a very small subset of the planet, so therefore anything done that is psychologically ande using college students as test subjects, is not representative as the planet. I would put it as a hypothesis that we are WEIRD. If we're going to do identity, it would be useful if we could have more representation from the rest of the planet as to what they think identity is. Yes, this is more how we can improve category. Yes, does anyone have what we can do well? We can use that to move on to the next part.

# What can we improve?

I know it might be a challenge, but please don't suggest how we do it. I want to do that in the next section. Let's identify pain points and then talk about pain points for that. Manu?

So again, a couple of notes from lunch. Folks that were new to this community said this was massively intimidating to some people. They acknowledged we don't know if there's much you can do about it because of the brain trust you have in the room but it's super intimidating. Papers are foreign to a non-technical audience. Even the pre-reading and trying to puzzle through what all of this is, if you don't have a technical or academic background, then you have no idea what these things are saying. It was difficult for the new folks-- some of the new folks were saying, why am I not on the Signal channel? I understand that you're not trying to exclude, but it felt a little exclusive even though that wasn't the intent. Some kind of comms channel would be nice. During the apology section, some apologies felt coerced. It was interesting. I got a little inkling of this where it's like, okay, the person has apologized and then immediately the microphone goes over to someone and it's "what do you think about this" and some people for that that's the last thing they want to do in front of a large group. It's fine for folks that are comfortable with it, but for folks who are not, it's not good. Overall, that was a positive-- people felt positive about that part of it. That's all I have.

I want to own that Signal thing. We have done that. It was not intentional. It came up in our lunch as well. I was so guilty. It's a little bit elitist. We make sure-- the board on, then the board adds folks. The commitment is that everyone gets added and has the opportunity to get added. Grace, you posted something to the group, but not everyone was on it.

Specific to Signal and the other channels, we have a large number of people who do not want to use it because it's violating their privacy. People didn't want to show their phone numbers, their real names, etc. And we have yet to find a single channel that meets our standards. Maybe we just have to make our own. Eating our own dogfood.

Grayce? For me, what was missing was a way of even just making the suggestion or creating some protocols around- if you have diverse opinoins about something or explicit opinions about it, then facilitating people who disagree about something to sit down and bang it out. Even just saying that; if you know these guys are working on something you like, but you don't like them, then something that would make it so that all the stakeholders could sit down on something even if they don't agree. Especially if they disagree.

I would have liked more focused--- I don't need more time to work on the paper, but more time where it is clear it wouldn't be so much moving around. The noise level was quite high and I had trouble focusing on writing the paper. Yeah, I hear that.

Chris, and then Mike. We're in a line here. Directly related to that, I've heard that this morning worked because they had 2 1.5h sessions. Could be something we want to focus on, not interrupting people's flow.

There's no elevator in this building. It's not a problem for many of us, but it can certainly be a problem if my wife wanted to participate. Yeah, I hear that. In Santa Barabra, we made a point of asking. The rest of the world doesn't have to be ADA compliant, I didn't know. Thanks Mike. Dmitry, then Erik.

I heard a couple of suggestions from the group. One is just a wish for is-- a lack of a printed schedule, like a little poster or something to post to the pinboard.  The other ones have been said. Give larger chunks of protected time. Signal channel, etc.

I would like to see some more continuity with topic papers that we spent time on. I'd like to see it carried through. I feel like a lot of the work is discarded. Thank you, Eric.

Aj? This is my first time at this event and in this community. It's been an incredible experience, not just because it was planned, but the unplanned conversations like at lunch or before the day started. That has been the most significant takeaway for me. We have this cool Schilling point for this event, and then so many people get together to talk about these ideas. I wish there was a substrate where we could continue to talk outside of these events. I would love if there was a discord channel or something of that nature to continue conversations between events. Your wish is our command; we do have a Discord channel. No we don't; we have a Discourse... He said discord. Oh, I guess, any way to facilitate the conversation. We have a forum, it is integrated with forum, it works okay so far, but yes let's use that so far. I'll send out an email to attendees with that url so that folks can join up and participate.

Sam? I think ther'es a perverse incentive in paper submissions. They are submitted individually, but then at the conference you're combining into groups. Once someone writes a paper, there's a certain amount of ownership and you'd like to do their thing. I suggest let people do group submissions and that would remove some of the discord resulting from the perverse incentive.

On the topic of paper submissions, it seems like from an outsider coming into this community, this community has 4 unconferences and no conferences. An opportunity exists to build upon the historical success of conference styles in an unconference way. I was surprised that nobody presented any of the papers that they submitted. It might be an opportunity to pick the five best papers, vote on them, and then have some more traditional paper presentations to bring that into this conference and facilitate the conversations aorund the topics that were submitted rather than having everyone read everything which historically doesn't happen when readings are assigned. The pain point is that the papers are brought up; the pain point is that there's a disincentive for the papers. This conference doesn't have any presentation of that material. That's the pain point. I agree with that. Any other pain points?

Art? Even though I had attended some of these before and been involved in DID and built a decentralized PKI, I thought it would be a minor thing to build a resolver doc. I had the experience of a bunch of missing contextual information and trying to get it straight and shifting contexts-- the commitment part I'll address some of that, but the problem was missing context from abstract specs to how this is expected to be used. There's a bunch of gaps in there that might be blindspots.

Some of the people in the community, one of the pain points for me was terminology. I didn't read all of your papers, but I did read several of them. I was struggling to realize this is the same idea but using different words. To reprise Mark Miller's comment earlier today; it is a wishlist, but it would be great if we had a lexicon or mental models that went along with that. Possibly with alternatives. Thank you. That remains a pain point for those of us who have remained around. Anyone else have pain points?

Chris? I guess also to give you and Christopher a break, just in terms of coordination of the event. It's a very hard activity, as anyone who has done that knows. The pain point is that I love all the events and the conversations that it sparked. I don't want that to go away. But in terms of the coordination and understanding all the details, the addresses, the dinners, it would be great if we hired a conference coordinator and then we'd get 100% of both of your time at the conference and you two wouldn't be so stressed. From your perspective, it would be better as well. I am a bad delegator, but thank you.

Christopher? We need to announce events a lot sooner and ideally before the previous Rebooting even begins.

Manu? In order to have some of the help, we need cash flow. That has been a massive pain point over the years. I don't know what the solution for that is. I'm certainly behind the scenes really leaning on some of the companies here who we know have money and we know you have somethjing out of the event.. . I think it's really hard for Joe and Christopher and Dmitry and Dan to keep saying, we need sponsorship dollars over and over again. There's a point where you've been participating in the community for so long, and you haven't financially supported it when you can, that's a real pain point for the rest of us who do put in sponsorship dollars to see organizations much larger than us continue to not put in sponsorship dollars. As a result, it's the volunteers and the board that continues to pay the price.

# Commitments or suggestions

On that note, we're going to move into the next phase. I have two commitments to start. It's fine if you want to share a suggestion. Your suggestion is much more likely to get traction if you make a commitment too. It's much easier to get up and say I wish we can do this. Well, we're a volunteer organization and we don't have a ton of money. We invite you to stand up and work with us to make it happen.

I have two commitments to kick this off with. Yellowco made a commitment to sponsor this event. Thank you for that commitment, we appreciate that. The other commitment is that Erik committed to helping us create an automated webapp to submit topic papers to github. If you're not a github person, we hope to have a page that will upload your paper, deal with the README, put it in the repo, it's not a complex workflow but we need someone to build it and maintain it and fix bugs in the workflow so thank you for that Erik.

We like building stuff. This is the 9th rebooting web of trust. I expected more than papers and suggestions. The teamwork is astonishing. I want us to build a reference application that shows the capabilities of the skills of this community but also is an illustration of all the stories and standards we're working on. I would love to host a challenge brought to the RWOT community where the people that joined the Rebooting decide to go build stuff particularly for that challenge. I'm thinking of, I was amazed the selection of the papers. Apart from that, I would suggest and haven't thought this through, but one challenge in particular for a particular use case is to build a minimal viable product as a demonstration of what's going on here. I would be happy to coordinate or do whatever. It would be one team, not a competition, of people capable of building that. In four days, you can definitely build it. Then during the next Rebooting, you build on it. Instead of a primer, you build on it, it's a tutorial.

My commitments is to share back about the missing context and help fill in the gaps for people in trying to comply with the DID specs or VC specs and that kind of thing. Very cool, thank you Mark.

Just having the schedule on github would have been nice. If somebody gives me the schedule, I'll put it on github. Okay, perfect.

I have a slightly out of the box suggestion. My impression is that group has great group apprehension. I can't see anyone here who can lift it to a global movement. My company is-- we're a venture incubator, we're building an online business university not just a business university but wone of the classes we're teaching is how to do a TED talk. It's a paid talk, but it's Chris Andersen's best friends and the head of speaking coach at Apple. I think we can teach engineers to draw an emotional response from listeners. I'd like to donate 5 registrations for people here who would like to become the people bringing the message to the TED world stage. Let me know if you're interested and we can set that. Thank you Moses.

Dmitry? I'd like to make two commitments. One is to address the request for the channel we can all use taking into considerations the privacy concerns iwth Signal which although encrypted does share phone numbers and names. I volunteer to setup a discord server, which is pseudonymous, open-source and privacy preserving. I'll make a commitment to set it up and document it for the whole board so that the cfommunity can continue to use it from year to year. In addition to the Discourse message word. Two, there's several requests for posters like at academic conferences not full-blown academic conferences but in the spirit of the choose your own adventure session-- I'm offering a commitment for a poster session jointly with choose your own adventure, like creating another github issue template for posters. People submit, and we have an area for them to be displayed, and the creators stand by the posters and invite conversation. We'll talk more about that and figure out the best way to do this. Chris and I have been thinking about maybe our pre night is a poster session in the future.

I think we need a DID guidance document. I'm committing to work with you to get the framework of that document outlined and then hopefully it will take on a life of its own after that. That's great, thank you.

Bill? I look forward to joining you all at the next Rebooting. Before that, I'll report on my efforts to setup the event in Singapore in the fall of the next year. We'll talk to various sponsorship agencies and private sector companies there and coordinating with the management team here if there happens to be big names because ytou might be talking to the same organization at a different level but hopefully we can green light that event before the Spring. I set a particular target of raising $25,000 USD before that time so that we can make the greenlight decision. I'm really happy to be part of this community.

I have a commitment and then to Art. At the last Rebooting, I made a commitment to stay through until we got incorporated. We are currently incorporated and on track to be a 501(c)4. I'm going to commit to pushing this through and getting our bank account and hire our virtual executive assistant to deal with my discount code questions ando ther questions which don't really need me to answer.

If you're one of those lovely introverts in our community and you would like to share any of these items without a microphone, you can email them, and you can give one of the leaderships your piece of paper. This might not be the best venue, but you can still give your input.

I'm making a commitment to mentor at least one person to try to onboard into the community. If you're new to the community and you need some mentoring to connect in with Rebooting or W3C or any of these different organizations to be available to do so. I'd like someone to reach out to me. But we need to onboard more new people. Thank you, Chris, that's a great opportunity.

Next up after coffee is we're going to do team report outs, and then when we go around and do the report out, I want to hear what is the coolest thing that your group discovered or did and then we wrap up the day. So go have some coffee.



