# Intro to Rebooting the Web of Trust 9

Welcome everyone!

We are here to create things: paper, codes. Any other artifacts! Your
work is what makes this conference successful.

Let us know if we can help you to better work on something that
excites you.

## History of RWOT

About five years ago, Christopher met with old-time people like
Xanadu, TLS coauthor, RSA programmers. And arguments ensued about how
to solve problems that we didn't solve twenty+ years ago.

They thought incremental changes were all that was necessary. But
Christopher thought a _reboot_ was needed. 

So he brought together people from blockchain and security communiity. 

And we heard that governments might be interested ... and then the
second was held at the United Nations!

We continued to define requirements at the UN, and we decided to focus
on identifiers, which led to incubation of DIDs, which supported
Verifiable Credentials.

We are now four years later, with over 50 topic papers submitted to
this workshop. 

## Ombudspeople

Welcome to a very dynamic, exciting event!

We do have a code of conduct: _be good to one another_. Let everyone
speak equally, and treat everyone with respect.

But things can get tense. Things _can_ blow up. If this happens, try
to take a time-out and get some separation, but if things continue to
be problematic therre are ombudspeople: Kim and Manu. Can also talk
with leadership.

We want you all to be maximally productive in a collaborative way, so
if _anything_ gets in the way, let us know.

## Demos

Dmitri will be wrangling demos. Just fill in an issue using the
template on the RWOT9 GitHub.

## Volunteering

This is a _volunteer_-run event. So we need your help. Even if you're
new, we can just ask you to help cleanup at the end of the day.

## Activities

We have optional events for Thursday morning. You need to sign up with
Joe this morning.

## Sponsors

Thanks to our Sponsors: (Gold) Digital Contract Design; (Silver)
Protocol Labs; and (Ongoing Sustaining) Digital Bazaar.

And thanks to all of our leaders, past and present: Manu Sporny, Kim
Hamilton Duffy, Christopher Allen, Joe Andrieu , Dmitri Zagidulin,
Andrew Hughes, Dan Burnett.

And thanks for writing and collaborating.

## Past Papers

We've published 5 papers from RWOT8, with 3 more to come. We've
published 50 total from the past RWOTs.

If you need any help with any of the process, talk to Shannon.

## Today's Work

We'll arrange ourselves into groups and talk, then talk about weak
signals. After lunch, we'll have topic ideation and break into actual
teams working on topics.

Each team will have an abstract by the end of today.


